---
id: interview_building_beginners_guide
title: Learn to Build Docassemble Interviews
sidebar_label: Beginner's Guide
slug: /get_started/interview_building_beginners_guide
---

If you have never used Docassemble before, you are on the right page! We take every beginner through the same interview builder orientation steps before they start turning their first form into a guided interview. These steps will get you up and running 

1. First, we will introduce you to Docassemble with the Hello, World exercise.
2. Second, we will demonstrate the Weaver, a Document Assembly Line tool for quickly turning prepared forms into draft Docassemble interviews.
3. Then you will be ready to start working on your first form!

After you have run your first form through the Weaver, we will introduce you to the interview building workflow, including working with GitHub.

## Initial Onboarding

### 1. Do the Hello, World Exercise

In his Legal Tech Class, Quinten Steenhuis introduces Docassemble with a [short "Hello, World" exercise](https://suffolklitlab.org/legal-tech-class/docs/classes/docacon-2020/hello-world). This introductory exercise is a great way to demystify Docassemble and see what it's like to build a simple interview—by actually doing it.

:::info
In order to do this exercise you will need access to a Docassemble playground. If you don't have that and you don't want to set up your own Docassemble development server, register an account on the [LIT Lab Docassemble development server](https://apps-dev.suffolklitlab.org/user/register), then [email us](mailto:litlab@suffolk.edu) and ask for developer privileges.
:::

Once you have successfully completed the Hello, World exercise you might want to continue with the next few lessons in the Legal Tech Class. When you are finished, move on to the next step: learning about the Weaver.

### 2. Watch the Weaver Demo

The Weaver is a Document Assembly Line time-saving tool. It makes it much easier and faster to get from a PDF or DOCX form to a draft Docassemble interview. The best way to explain it is to see it in action:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1zF_omoCm1c?si=f8CxMChjI9DVLt5d" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
If you want to skip the context and get right to the demo, it starts at about 26:35.

The interview generated by the Weaver is not a finished interview. It is a starting point intended for further editing.

### 3. Start Working on Your First Form!

You probably already have an idea of the first form you want to work on, so get it out, go to the [Interview Building Workflow page](interview_building_workflow), and get started!

:::tip
You will encounter problems. To get help solving them, [join the Document Assembly Line community](get_started#join-the-community) and take advantage of the available [interview builder resources](get_started/interview_builder_resources).
:::

## Later

### GitHub Workflow

* Working with branches in the playground; playground projects
* Submitting PRs
* Resolving merge conflicts

## More Training

If you've completed the above you are ready to get started building your first interview. But if you want a more in-depth beginner training, check out this 3.5–hour beginner training from [Docacon 2020](https://docacon.com/2020/index.html):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Lsh_2qmTSAw?si=eVg0iE1amt13HR8c&amp;start=40" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>